# Azure Government DC User Meetup

Took place at 1776 instead of Excella, which was a nostalgic change.

The point of this meeting is to create a community of practioners,
discuss capabilities, showcae innovation, and give feedback to the Azure Govt
product team.


## How to Accelerate your Mission Apps with PaaS
Vishwas Lele, CTO, Applied Information Sciences

Benefits of PaaS is that you're only responsible for applications and data. Would
be best if someone had already made a thing that solved your problem (that's called Saas)
which you could use.

Main thing government customers is how long it takes to get from requirements
to value.

Gov also needs compliance, security, and monitoring.

### Example App: Video Analysis and Object Recognition App
* Need: Submission and analysis of source files
* Need: Object reco and tagging
* Need: Private data storage.
* Need: Minimal reliance on infrastructure
* Need: Runs in Azure Gov data centers.

Azure App Service -> User Facing Video Application
Azure Fucntion App -> Get Video Files and Extract Functions.
Azure Cognitive Services -> Computer Vision APIs

## Secure DevOps with Azure
Diego Lapiduz, Chief Information Security Architect, Microsoft Azure Government

DevOps Frameworks
* Develop and manage source code
* Build, test, and check policies
* Deploy
* Operature and Secure
* Monitor / Analyze

Dependency Analysis
* Check dependencies for vulnerabilities.

Pen-testing in Deployment

Always Be Deploying

The overview seems to be that you can (and should) add security checks when you're doing your
CD pipeline.

## Ask the Experts - Azure Customer Experience Team
Tom Rundle, Azure CXP Engineer & Steve Lewis, Senior Cloud Solution Engineer

Microsoft's mission - Empower every person and organization on the planet to achieve more.

This was more of them talking about how Microsoft supports the developer
community. I was working on another project at this time.