Upcoming meetups
* 11/? Wearables + Things
* 12/11: ModevCon

## Mobile Payments in Emerging Markets
Amitabh Saxena, Managing Director, Digital Disruptions

Mobile banking has two flavors
1. Using the mobile phone as a vehicle to access an
  existing bank account. "Additive"
2. Using the mobile phone to bring banking services to
  the unbanked. "Transformational"

### Kenya

Mobile money uses retail agents as "human ATMs" to add/withdraw
cash from mobile money account. A good place to recruit these is
from people who sell phone minutes.

Kenya is a success story. (M-Pesa) There was a youtube video of a guy
who had $10,000 stolen from him, which is surprising since the per-capita
GDP of Kenya is $1,250. This originally used secure SMS in Sim Toolkit.

Since the beginning of this time period, there has been a huge proliferation
of this kind of thing.

### Tanzania

Right now, he's working on developing an interoperable merchant payment
in Tanzania that build on a mobile money operator.

They used survey data to try to find good prices. They also have to deal
with a large variety of people who want other people to pay the costs.
Then they tried to build various financial tools on top of it.

### US Considerations

1. Disruptive models occur from challengers.
2. Dominant players (Safaricom / Apple) drive markets.
3. "Pivoting" from initial concepts makes sense.
4. Big Data enables unique products.
5. It's still about a compelling value proposition.

## Second Talk
Jordan, Chamber of Digital Commerce

My laptop died right before this talk, but it was good though
not as new to me as the previous one was.
