# Tech Talk DC April 2018 Meeting

Combined meetup with DevOps DC, DC Continuous Integration, and DC Scrum.

DevOps DC has its next meetup May 8th. Plus a conference June 6/7.

Wyn Van Devanter will have a Docker workshop May 15th / 30th.

Brandon Lawrence End-to-End Testing with Cypress June 27th.

## Productivity Engineering: [strike/Scaling a DevOps Culture[/strike]
	Surviving DevOps

Presentation by Mike McGarr (Manager, Netflix Developer Productivity)

Jeff Gallahar is a partner at Excella who introduced Mike. Partly because
Mike was an Excella alum from ~6 years ago.

17 years ago, Agile Manifesto was signed. Since then, it's been beneficial
for helping developers collaborate with business. But this left out the ops
team.

10 deploys per day: Dev & ops cooperating at Flickr Velocity 2009. Founded
DevOps. Deming/lean, web scale, telemetry, other buzz words.

Basically, he spend the first two months converting unknown unknowns to known
unknowns. His known knowns stayed about the same size.

Being an engineer at Netflix:
* write code
* write tests
* manage dependencies
* create deployment pipelines
* create metrics, alerts, and graphs
* performance tuning
* participate in chaos monkey
* design a canary
* wear a pager
* rotate your logs
* pump logs through the data pipelines
* ensure your service clients have sane fallbacks
* semantic version your libraries
* define A/B tests
* manage dynamic properties globally
* determine which instance type you need
* security groups, IAM groups
* encrypt your secrets
* AND MORE!

So how do you deliver business value while dealing with complexity, scale,
and velocity.

### Productivity Engineering
Productivity engineering aims to reduce cognitive load so that engineers
can devote more time to delivering business value.

Centralized enablement, platforms, developer experience

#### Centralzied Enablement
Who is going to make engineering's life easier? At first, its individuals,
which spreads them then. Later its centralized teams, which represents
the organization's commitment to solving the problem.

Netflix has the developer productivity team (VCS, build, artifacts),
delivery engineering (cloud delivery), runtime engineering (service RPC and discovery),
OS Engineering (base AMI), CORE reliability (availability), chaos engineering
(service resiliency), traffic engineering (regional failovers), cloud security (security),
insight engineering (telemetry).

Centralized teams enable product teams. They try to cater to the middle 80%.

Netflix is supposed to be a high-trust environment. Phrased another way those
with the responsibility should have the freedom.

#### Platforms

Basically, tools, but more broadly useful.

Netflix was historically a Java shop, but Node.js, Python, and Rails grew enough
that the central teams had to eventually support them. Newt is a Golang tool
designed to be less opinionated about languages.

Spinnaker was used as a case study.

#### Developer experience

What is the work engineers do that can be done by others?

##### tooling/api proliferation
He used the phrase "let 1000 flowers bloom" unironically.

Is there a tool that does X? You don't know. You could try
to stop building tools, but Netflix doesn't like.

Centers of Gravity is the Netflix way, have a few main platforms that
tools integrate with.

##### organization-wide integration
Sharing code is a good thing.

Publishers: who is consuming my library? who is using this API in my library?
	who will I break if I change this API?
	
Consumers: Is there code that solves X? Which version of this library is safe?
	Why did I get this particular version? How often should I update?
	
Netflix tried to build tools for this.
1) A tool to determine ownership of a git repo.
- Checking git commits worked 80% of the time.
2) A tool to understand the dependency graph.
3) A tool to lock resolved dependencies.
4) A tool to build all downstream consumers.

Then they tried to rebuild it into a platform.

#### change engineering
* Java 6 -> 7
* CentOS -> Ubuntu
* Perforce -> Git
* Java 7 -> Java 8

Don't communicate with whole company, they don't want to hear you. Just the
people who are affected.

We want to reduce the cost of change. How about change campaigns to communicate,
send reminders, and track adoption rate? That's good for managing, but what wear
really want is to make the adoption curve faster.

1) Find all git repos.
2) Convert all code to AST.
3) Find the variety of calls to library.
4) Transform all code to call new library.
5) Issue pull requests to all git repos.
6) Automate testing for every pull request.

This is the kind of thing I want to do, it took that developer 3 months, but
given the size of the code base that was still a massive savings.