# The Joy of CMake
Bill Hoffman, Creator of CMake

Works at Kitware. Talked about the company for a bit.

CMake was built for the Insight Segmentation and Registration Toolkit.

CMake Release-1-0 branch created in 2001.

Boost aims to give C++ a set of useful libraries like Java, Python, and C#.

CMake aims to give C++ compile portability like the compile once and run everywhere of
Java, Python, and C#.

KDE 2006 was the tipping-point of popularity and where it overtook autoconf.

2016-7 Second tipping point
* Now has native CUDA support.
* Used by Netflix.
* 38% of developers use it according to JetBrains
* Full Visual Studio integration.

CMake Features
* Support complex commands
* Single input for all platforms
* Automatic dependency generation (C, C++, CUDA, Fortran)
* Automatic re-execution of cmake at build time
* Parallel builds
* Out of source builds
* RPATH handling
* Extensive test suite
* Cross-compilation

Sort of treats modules like objects in OOP.

CTest and CDash are also the best things since sliced bread!

# Property-based testing
Andy Kirsch

## What is Property Based Testing?

Style for writing unit tests, based on rules defining behavior.
Similar to fuzzing but with different goals.

For all strings A and B: (A+B).startsWith(A), .endsWith(B) .length == A.length + B.length

This is similar to another presentation I went to last week.

## Is it really that good?
ScalaCheck users took other libraries and augmented their test suites with property checks.

Found tons of edge conditions that the authors didn't realize were there. Even in things like
Java AWS.

## How to get srated

Build some generators.

Write some properties for existing code where they fit clearly.

Available in Javascript (JSVerify), Ruby (Rantly), Java (JUnit-QuickCheck), C++ (RapidCheck),
  Scala (ScalaCheck). 

