# Joy of Programming
5/2/2018 Meetup

First time attending the Joy of Programming meetup, which was hosted by Optoro by
the Metro Center.

Topic Ideas from the organizers. Esoteric data structures, property testing, how computers etc. work,
what is finite automata, etc.

## AdTech 101
By Grant Nelson (Lawyer), NAI (Network Advertising Industry) and William Lee, NAI

NAI has 105 member companies and tries to self-regulate their advertising procedures.

### How are ads served?
Requesting it from a server. One website requested over 2000 things.

Mobile uses Identifier for Advertising (Apple) or Advertising ID (Android) to track people
instead of cookies.

First vs Third party cookies. First-party is set by the website you visit. Third-party is set
by anyone, usually ad networks.

Some browsers block 3rd party cookies by default. (Which ones?) Apple has a thing that quarantines
cookies after a day and deletes them after 30.

How have advertisers changed in response? Fingerprintjs2.

How unique are fingerprints?

Cross-device tracking - deterministic:
Track if someone has logged on to a service on multiple devices.

Cross-device tracking - probabilistic:
Looking for common device characteristics, like IP addresses.

### AdTech Ecosystem

1993: Websites link to each other to share views.
1994: hotwired.com used the first banner ad from AT&T.
1995: Toyota put ads on a bunch of sites, others copied it.
2004: Excange came along to make lots of money.
2005: Competing exchange.
2007: Supply-side platforms (AdWorks, etc.)
2010: Demand-side platforms (MediaMath)

Seismic (an SSP) bought rocket-fuel (a DSP)

2014: Data Management Platforms

None of these companies are making a lot of money, but the employees are.
Lots of mergers, acquisitions, and bankruptcies.

Commodotize data as standardized ad formats.

OpenRTB Bid Request JSON

People routinely reply about lat/lon coordinates. All of this data is untrustworthy. Everyone is
constantly checking things.

Old-way is to ask a person for bids, either deny or accept it and then go to next place.

Header-bidding is to ask everyone for bids and then pick the best. Somewhat difficult to
implement for publishers, prebid.js should.

### AdWords API

Accounts have campaigns with budgets, bidding strategies, campaign criteria, ad groups, ads,
ad group criteria, and bids. You should get an account just to look at things.

Multiple bidding strategies available.

### Auction Economics

Vickrey Auction, highest bidder pays second-highest bid. Nash Equilibrium is to bid what you think
the slot is worth. It's this way because people were worried about over-bidding.

### Contact Info
grant@networkadvertising.org
william@networkadvertising.org

Why join NAI?
* Network effects now.

Flash boys?
* Really want to not slow down page-loading.

## Isomorphic Web App
by Xiaoyun Yang

* Not a framework.
* Not a library.
* Strategy for rendering web pages.
Based on a book - https://www.manning.com/books/isomorphic-web-applications

Server vs client side rendering. Trade-offs, server side has better SEO, client has better UX.

Isomorphic Web apps try to combine the benefits of both.

Starter project to show it works.
Stack is full-stack JS: React, react router, node, express, webpack.
github.com/xiaoyunyang/isomorphic-router-demo.git

What makes the app isomorphic? Shared-code between server and client.

I'll have to think more about isomorphic code, SEO isn't something I'd choose a platform based on.
How much do I want to be an early adopter?

## Laptop died

I stopped taking notes because my laptop has a finite charge.