# ModevDC 2018/04/04 Meeting

RWDevCon is sold out, so they invited a few speakers to talk at
Capital One Labs. I'm pretty sure I've been to this building before.

# Collection Protocols by Vincent Ngo
Capital One employee for 2 years, giving a four hour workshop at RWDevcon.
This is a scaled down version.

Swift Algorithm Club tries to give monthly tutorials about data structures
and algorithms in Swift.

This will talk about Sequence and Collection Protocols in Swift.

These will be useful because they are used for lots of built-ins in Swift.
Using these helps you improve reusability (just like Java Generics)

LinkedLists will be used as an example for Collections and Sequences.

LinkedList methods:
* push() - Inserts on front of list.

Collection is a Sequence.

## Tier 1 - Sequence

An iterator is a pez dispenser, which can be used both by the improved-for loop
and by map, reduce, and filter, plus more things.

What do you need to conform to the Sequence protocol? You just need to implement
a makeIterator() function.

## Tier 2 - Collection

Sequences can be infinite, Collections must be finite.
This lets us use some features like isEmpty and indexing.

Requirements for Collection:
1) startIndex
2) endIndex
3) subscript
4) index

At this point he started to run out of time and gave a rapid overview of his
other stuff.

# Lessons from the App Store by Philip Shoemaker

Philip used to be App Store Director at Apple. Here are some of his Lessons Learned.
He bounced around at a half dozen startups, before getting into iOS app development
in 2008. He then got hired at Apple in 2009.

I was expecting him to talk about lessons learned leading a team at Apple, not
to talk about lessons for people trying to get on the App Store.

Lesson 1: Never trust a magician.
* David Copperfield outed him on Twitter, which brought him a lot of mixed
	attention.

Lesson 2: COMMUNICATE!!!
* You need to communicate with Apple if you're doing stuff.

Lesson 3: Read the Guidelines.
* This is actually important. Apple wants their 30% and doesn't want you
	making them look bad.
* One of Apple's guidelines is against "Unforeseen" things.
* Weekly app submissions have grown automatically. One of the things

Rejection rate is around 20%. It used to be 50%.

Lesson 4: Developers are Wily
* Remote Switch - Hot Rods would switch behavior when it went live.
* 18.X - if you're at this IP, you're at Apple.
* INCUPERTINO() - Apple used Static API checker. Done mostly to hide private
	APIs.
* Bait and Switch - Tits & Boobies - bird app, probably designed to make
	people think it's pornography.
* Fake reviews are apparently the way they work in China, people would
	hire marketing teams to download apps

Lesson 5: Look at Rejection Reasons

Lesson 6: Read the PLA.

Lesson 7: Look at the store.
* Sometimes people would say that they should be allowed to do something because
	someone on the store is doing it, 

Lesson 8: Use Testflight.
* Get your app in review team's hands before you're done.

Lesson 9: Push the envelope.
* Apple needs to advance the platform. Line2 was an example.

Lesson 10: Appeal
* Go to app review board. Reviewers have 15% error rate, but if you appeal
	you can get a new person to look at things.
	
Lesson 11: Tell the world.
* Apple lost a few points on its stock, because of the Babyshaker app. Yes,
	an app to pretend shake a baby.
* Cryptocurrency apps started being approved after someone destroyed their iPhone
	and went viral.
	
philip@realityshiftnetwork.com

# Phantom Types by Daniel Steinberg
dimsumthinking.com

typealias = typedef, but typealias's aren't strictly checked.

You could do structs instead, but that's just bulky. That also fixes the
type-checking problems. A custom init can make it less bulky. But this can
require an annoying amount of code. Reducing the amount of code can be done with
Protocols, but is sometimes more useful with Generics.

It's seems that a Phantom Type is where your class has a Generic which is never
used.

He's an excited speaker, even though he apparently came here straight from the
airport.

It seems like a phantom type is a generic parameter given solely so that we can
check if two objects are using the same generic.
