# Designing Human-Centered AI Products and Systems
## GDG-DC, January 2019 Uday Kumar, Principal @ Metashore, Advisor @ Oland Technologies;

uday at metashore.com

Has a son named Ari who used the Google Assistant as part of his science fair project.

He believes that AI will be the Fourth Industrial Revolution with the first three
being from Steam, Electricity, and Computers.

People are biased and if we let them those biases will influence the algorithm. How do
we avoid that pitfall?

Eugene Goostman passed the Turing test in 2014.

AI Startups keep getting bought out by big tech companies.

AI Applications from biggest to smallest
* Static Image recognition
* Algo trading
* Patient data
* Predictive maintenance
* Object identification and tracking
* Text query of images
* and many more

Flywheel effect
* Smarter algo -> better product -> more users -> more data -> smarter algo

Pure reinforcement learning "cherry"
* Machine predicts a scalar reward given once in a while

Supervised learning "icing"
* Machine predicts a category for each input, predicting human-supplied data

Unsupervised learning (cake)
* Machine predicts any part of its input for any observed part.
* i.e. predict next frame of video.

AI = building smart systems
NLP = Machines that can understand things
ML = Machines that can learn over time.

We've been learning from machines, now it's time for them to learn from us.

## Google Duplex ... Scary but impressive

Could schedule reservations for you.

People were annoyed that the machine was pretending to be a human.

Didn't do "This call may be recorded"

## Understanding limitations of algorithms

Accuracy vs explainability (Tradeoff, Most accurate to least, Least explainable to most)
* Neural Networks
* Ensemble Methods
* Support Vector Machine
* Graphical Models
* Decision Trees
* Regression Algorithms
* Classification Rules

## AI at Google: 7 Principles
1. be social be neficial
2. avoid creating or reinforcing unfair bias
3. be built and tested for safety
4. be accountable to people
5. incorporate privacy design principles
6. uphold high standards of scientific excellence
7. Be made available for uses that accord with these principles

## Explainable Artifical Intelligence

TCAV is Goggle's attempt for this.

Eliezer Yudkowsky - By far the greatest danger of Artifical Intelligence is that
people conclude too early that they already understand it.

## My thoughts
He had a thing for "full disclosure" which I felt was a waste of time. Both for not
being something the consumer wants and not being something that benefits technology.
