# Welcome
## Nathen Harvey, VP Community Development @ Chef, @DevOpsDC (cofounder?)
He likes to tell people that going to tech meetups is the
best way to get better. Rest of his welcome was thanking
Capital One and talking about Women In Tech. He talked about
their Code of Conduct which is good. He gave a shout out to
Twitter and DC Tech Slack. I tried to join, but couldn't reach
the website.

He gave a sales pitch for DevOpsDays DC. The call for presenters
is open until April.

This is also the 5th Anniversary for DevOpsDC.

Sales pitch for ChefConf 2016.

Overview of April Meetup.

He was a funny guy.

## General Announcements

Medicare announced an April hackathon using a new app.

A couple people announced that their employer was hiring.

One brave man announced that he was looking for work.

## Sam Brown, DC Continuous Delivery

## Randy Fuller & ?, DivvyCloud, Sponsors for Infrastructure as Code

# Successful Practices for Continuous Delivery
## Nathen Harvey (as above) @nathenharvey 
EVERY business is a software business.

Traditional view is that there's a tradeoff between quality and
innovation.

Ways to fix that:
* Manual processes can be replaced with automation.
* Legacy systems and tools can be moved to
  "dynamic infrastructure" AKA cloud.
* Organizational silos can be fixed with increased cooperation
  and trust.
* Infrequent large releases can be fixed with continuous
  delivery.
* Regulatory burdens can be done by integrated compliance into
  your automated testing.

What's a proper version control system? Anything starting with g-i-t.

Treating infrastructure as code lets you check it into version control,
put it under unit tests, and automatically repeat.

DevOps is poorly defined, so he gave his own definition.

People > Products > Companies

Lean Principles
* Eliminate waste (muda)
* Kaizen
* Kaikaku
* Learn from failure

Rewards of DevOps (according to some research):
* More deployments
* Ship faster
* Faster MMTR
* More profits, market share, productivity
* Bigger market share

Manage risk with small batches and customer validation.

Continuous Integration:
* Alwas integrate branches to master.
* Make branches short lived.
* Fix the build immediately when it goes red.
  (And not by commenting out failing test cases.)

Four-eye rule: No code goes to production without four eyes looking at it.

Types of tests:
* Unit test (single functions)
* Integration tests (multiple units)
* Functional tests (end to end, basically)
* Smoke tests (quickly determine if everything is broken)

There should be one fixed path for change. Should be the same for
each pipeline.

Security like compliance can't be done as an after-thought.

Live Chef demo. Curse failed to strike.

What are erb files? They're embedded Ruby files that evaluate
some ruby code to get a static file. Kind of like Flask templates.

Mildly off-topic: The chef command makes things look like Swedish Chef
and is unrelated to the Chef company/software.

What are knife plugins?

He has a fancy shell prompt that says how much git stuff has been changed.
I want that.

What is stash?
