# 2018/05/08 DevOpsDC Meetup

I got a free tiger hat.

# Sponsors
* Excella
* DevOpsDays DC June 6-7 USPTO/Alexandria

Matt Stratton might be talking about Pager Duty in June.
Someone will talk about open source in July.

## Managing Multiple CM Systems
Sally Lehman - Site Reliabilitiy Engineer
rothsa on github
@SllyLhmn on Twitter.
Worked at AddThis which Oracle bought a while ago.

Partially a 30-minute rant on the pain of letting your platform choices slip away
from a single-language.

Bad-paintings, but were all from professional artists, part of an extended metaphor to the
War of the Roses.

Using multiple CM languages is often a people, not technical, problem.

Using a single-language is often the exception from her perspective.

Ops team picked Puppet at first, a developer introduced salt later. Then the company
bought a company that used Ansible for everything. They planned on replacing the Ansible
eventually, but never got around to it.

Salt caching would hide if you tried to push something that was old.

Ansible had no concept of environments, which was a pain.

Fortunately, Puppet worked fine.

So much to remember!

"Making the single worst strategic mistake that any software company can make: They
	decided to rewrite the code from scratch." - Joel Spolsky (Talking about Netscape)

Why bother with estimates if they're going to be wrong anyway?

SE's estimate the work they remember accurately, but routinely forget large chunks of the
work.

x.co/overlook has a bunch of tips on estimating software.

Estimates get better the smaller the project and the closer it is to done.

Good ways to split projects:
1) Businnes Value
2) Maintenance Need
3) Code Quality
4) Functionality
5) Manifest Equivalent
6) Module Equivalent

What if my time allocated to improve tooling this quarter is approx. 0 hours?
- Learn other language and convert it as you

Comparison of languages would be best as a Venn Diagram

Puppet      | Ansible        | Salt   | Chef
Node, Agent | Nodes          | Minion | Node, Client
Environment | N/A            | Environment | Environment
Resource    | Module Methods | id, state declartations, module methods | resource
Attribute   | Play           | Function declaration | Resource attribute
Hiera       | Group vars, host vars, defaults, role defaults | Grains, pillars | Data bags, attributes
Hierarchy   | Top-to-bottom, vars files | Top file merging strategy | Attribute precedence
Facter      | Facts, setup   | Pillar | Ohai
Manifest    | Playbook       | State File | Recipe
Module      | Playbook       | Formula (Not modules) | Cookbook
...
...
...

### Alternatively embrace your situation
Some languages have features that others don't, which might be worth having multiple.
Multiple tools means multiple CI/CD.
Get your repos on the same central git repo (i.e. GitHub, GitLab)

### In summary
Figure out if you can do a rewrite.
Learn your other languages.
CI/CD that's cross-language

Audience Member suggested to start with the most recent code you made.

## Observability
Baron Schwartz (of VividCortex)

VividCortex is a database monitoring product.

### What is observability and how is it different from monitoring?

Observabilitity is an attribute of a system, not an activity or tool.

Other system properties:
* Testability
* Operability
* Maintainability
* Efficiency

Pillars of Observability:
* Events
* Logs
* Metrics
* Traces

Code shouldn't look like you pair-programmed with an APM vendor.

Maybe you should just buy Dynatrace?

Congrats! You have now served your instrumentation problem and created
a big-data problem! Fortunately, metrics can be really valuable if
you can interpret them correctly.

/proc/diskstats is a good example and there's nothing wrong with copying from it.

Universal Scalability Law explains the relationship between concurrency, throughput,
and expansion of service time.

### Conclusions
* Highly observable systems are easier to understand.
* Monitoring the work is more important than the resources
* Every service should have a process list.
* Beyond real-time monitoring, the process list can emit events.
* Getting trustworthy answers from giant collections of events is hard.
* Metrics are aggregations of events, and they can be great!
* Focus on the most valuable, cheapest, easiest stuff.

Read our books at xaprb.com/talks