# GoLang Reston Meetup 4/18/2018

CapitalGo is June 22th, 2018. Website is capitalgolang.com.

## How Drone Works: Continuous Delivery with Docker & Go — Joey Sacchini

Joey works on Comcast's Cloud Automation team. Gave a talk about Ginkgo/Gomega.

What is drone? What is it's history?
Drone is a competitor/replacement for Jenkins and Travis. It integrates tightly
with whatever your git host is.

First written by Brad Rydzewski and started growing in early 2014.

Steps:
1) Drone clones your repo into a docker container.
2) Then it runs go test.
3) Then it builds it.
4) Then it makes a docker image.
5) Then it deploys (possibly with kubernetes).

Architecture:
Drone web uses PostGresSQL and GitHub's API.
Drone Agent communicates with drone web over gRPC.

I hope you like yaml. Because that's how you do the setup for this.

These slides are at joey.sh/drone-slides

## Istio by Michael Lore
Introducing the Service Mesh

Michael works on Central Architecture Team at Concur.

Everyone's turning monoliths into microservices these days, but how
can you do that while handling security, discovery, resiliency, observation,
and deployment?

That bloats each microservice and makes them not so micro after all. Especially,
in a polyglot world.

Istio wants to make microservices simple again, by using Istio as a proxy. A major
part of Istio is a tool called Envoy, which is basically how it does the proxying.
Istio then has a separate control plane for telemetry, config data, policy checks,
and so on.

Istio is progressing rapidly, but is still alpha. This kind of thing might be
THE WAY OF THE FUTURE! Larger clusters may be wonky.