# Flask and Paramiko
## By Enrique Valenzuela (enriquemanuel.me)

The guy's a sys admin for Blackboard. He thinks it's annoying
to log in to a bunch of servers every day and do stuff manually.

He decided it would be best to make a flask website to automate
that stuff. This could also be done with Chef, but he decided to
reinvent the wheel.

Paramiko is a Python library that implements the SSH protocol.

He chose Flask over Django because it's much more useful-friendly
and it's also more light-weight.

Celery is an (a)synchronous task queue, which can be used to reduce
the amount of time you're waiting.

User -> Web Server -> Flask -> Celery -> Paramiko -> Blackboard
In this slide he misspelled "know" as "now".

Speaker's from Ecuador which is cool.

Blueprints are like modules in Flask. They are also like folders.

The curse of live demos struck, he did some live coding to force
it to pass a failing check.

For security, they use a VPN and just ignore all requests to the API
from outside the VPN.

Audience member asked if there were ever any major failures. Enrique said
there was once trouble with someone restarting servers and not checking
they came up.

Same audience member asked if he looked into ssh-multiplexing. I don't
remember his answer, but I would have said that his app is more robust
and also lets you do certain things in sequence.

Audience member asked how you check that a server is healthy after
restarting. Enrique says they check the logs for it saying it's
ready.

His code routinely goes over 80 columns and has massive blocks
of commented out code. Ugh.

If he had to redo it from scratch, he would do it with hubbit(?).
He might also consider Ansible (for parallelism). If he had to use
a premade solution for this he might pick Rundeck.

Blackboard runs as bbuser in order to reduce the amount of
stuff that needs to be done as root. This is a good idea.

Audience member remembered using Jenkins when he did something
similar for a small government contractor.
