# 2018 / 05/ 29 Meeting

Next group event is Michael Sahota on June 11.
Next meeting is Rob Jolles at end of June.

Spent ten minutes thanking Excella for sponsoring the group. A bit much?

## Schedule
6:00 - 6:30 Mingle with pizza
6:30 - 8:00 Presentation
8:00 - 8:30 Book raffle

## So You Want to Go Faster? A Journey to Continuous Deployment
By Dan Davis (USCIS Tech Lead)

Dan loves testing, agile, and cats.

His team deploys to production 300 times a month.

### How do I DevOps?
He thinks people want a roadmap, but that roadmap would be very conditional
on your org and its challenges.

Why can't we deploy more than X a month/week/day?
What are our limiting factors?
What changes do we need to make?
Do you want to go faster? (YES)

Continuous Deployment
Every commit triggers a deployment to production.
* Have a person watch repo and deploy to production when a commit's made? (No)
* Have a program '''' (No)

SD Work Flow:
Unit Tests -> Create Build Artifacts -> Provision non-prod server -> Deploy to non-prod ->
Acceptance Test -> Provision Production -> Deploy to Production -> Monitoring

Speed is an important variable
* Depending on speed we may choose different tools
Continuous deployment is a speed, not a process or tool
* To achieve that speed, we have to work up to it.
* Think of it like shifting gears

5 Gears of Production Deployment
* Once Per Month
* Once Per Sprint
* One per Week
* ?
)

1st Gear Teams (Once a month)
* Run unit tests when code is committed.
* Acceptance Testing performed by a QA team
* Deployments performed by a deployment engineer
* Servers

1st Gear Pain Points
Deployments prone to failure (Knowledge siloed in a few people)
Deployments require downtime (Must be done on weekends or late at night)
Lack of Consistency between environments (Leads to problems and bugs)

Shifting to Sprintly Deployments
* Main Limiting Factor: Deployment failure rate (High failure rate will slow you down)
* Key difference from 1st gear, disciplined deployment teams
* Most bang for your buck: Deployment automation (Ansible/Chef/Puppet, Fabric/Capistrano)
* Establish a pipeline culture: test then deploy vs just deploy
* Culture change: Don't let the pipeline stay red

Now that you're in second gear, you should have a reliable build process.
Build engineers should be happier and it should be easier to get new people
up to speed.

3rd Gear (Once per week)

Main Limiting Factor: Environments
* Deploy once per week: start thinking about impact of downtime.
* Key difference is infrastructure management.

Every deployment requires a service interruption. For first and second gear you can
just have maintenance windows. Deploying more frequently means more runtime.

Better way is to use Blue/Green Deployment. We have two sets of servers and we
switch the load between the two. This lets us deploy during the day, even during peak
times.

Culture Shock: What about the risk? What if something goes wrong? Automation means we can
recover faster and have more engineers available. Given those factors, daytime deployments
should be preferred.

Power of 3rd Gear is reliable deployments with no downtime. Team should settle into a pretty
good groove with weekly deployments.

4th Gear (Every 2-3 days)

Ironically, one of the hardest gears.
Manual processes become unsustainable.
More cultural battles than technology.

Main Limiting Factor: Unready / Unfinished code
* Barely enough time to develop
* No time to manually test

Culture change:
* Use of feature toggles
* Little manual testing

Can we automate the testing?
* Testers don't typically have the skillset.
* Developers are better suited for it.

Developers must now write feature code AND test code.
* Deeper appreciation for what you build and understanding how your decisions affect your customers.

Useful functionality that can't be done in 2/3 days. We can do this with feature toggles.

Culture change: Deploying to production is an unremarkable event. Feature toggles are easy to rollback.

5th Gear

Main Limiting Factor: Efficiency

What happens after we deploy?
* A flood of users might it the system.
* A memory leak could sap performance.
* Networking failures.

If we see a sudden spike in errors, alert developers, product owners, security team.

Don't wait for users to tell you it's broken.

Continuous Deployment takes Bravery
* Trust that your automated tests will catch show stopper bugs.
* Dedicate yourself to fixing bugs quickly.

Going faster?
* Limited by 
** # of commits per day
** Longest step in pipeline.