# issue 26574
##replace_interleave TODO

There's a TODO in Objects/byteobject.c to optimize a special case for
a single character. That seems like something I could do.

Those TODOs were originally put there in 2007.

There is also an identical TODO in Objects/bytearrayobject.c.
Both of these are in functions called replace_interleave which are
basically the same except for using bytes vs bytearrays.

The TODO in bytesobject.c was added by "benjamin" while the TODO in
bytearrayobject.c was added by "nnorwitz".

I made a change to do nothing if the count was 1 and test_bytes
test_dbm failed. This is good since it means test cases cover this
scenario and we thus have an easy way to know when we've fixed the problem.

What's confusing me now is the two lines bytesobject.c::2476-2477.
        *result_s++ = *self_s++;
        Py_MEMCPY(result_s, to_s, to_len);
Aren't these redundant?

replace_interleave implements the following: 
>>> b"Python".replace(b"", b".")
  b'.P.y.t.h.o.n.'

Doing nothing for count == 1 breaks (b"").replace(b"", b"."),
but not the previous thing.

I'm thinking the special case is to_len == 1, not count == 1.

How can I tell? Well, because I can do the optimization with to_len
only. Changing bytesobject.c accordingly fixed test_bytes. test_dbm
will probably be fixed by doing the same to bytearrayobject.c.

test_dbm was fixed after making that change in bytearrayobject.c.

Now to start writing an email to Core Mentoring.

Email was sent. Zackary responded saying that I should go ahead and
submit it with benchmarks. Age ain't nothing but a number.

Benchmark comparisons:
* Before (cold start):
>>> timeit.timeit('(b"x" * 2000000).replace(b"",b".")', number=1000)
7.619218342995737
* After (cold start):
>>> timeit.timeit('(b"x" * 2000000).replace(b"",b".")', number=1000)
2.7605581780080684

Possible issue: In bytearrayobject.c, moving the final memcpy in/out of
the if statement doesn't cause any test failures.

Submitted patch on 3/16!
