# Getting into Docker: Getting Started with Docker pt. 1

By Wyn Van Devanter 

https://www.meetup.com/TechTalkDC/events/247268020/

To speak submit a PR to http://github.com/techtalkdc/Open-Governance

My Windows laptop does not meet the requirements to install Docker.
I'm just going to take notes and try this with my

Repo for tutorial is https://github.com/excellalabs/docker-workshop-1

## Cloud Enabling Technologies
* Virtualization
* Private Platform-as-a-service
* CONTAINERS!

What is Docker?
* A VM gives you an OS in a window.
* A container gives you a file system via background process(es)

Much slimmer than a VM.

VMS are good at managing units of hardware resources.
Containers are good at managing units of software.

Dockerfile -> Image -> Container
Dockerfile: text file recipe for image
Image: read-only file system
Container: Copy of an image

Docker usually uses the Linux Container System, but there's also a Windows
Container System.

Docker runs containers on Linux kernel via virtual machine.
They can now also run on the Windows kernel.

Benefits of containers
* Consistent
* Very portable
* Fast to spin up
* Smaller footprint
* Easy to scale

Open Container Initiative
* Create open industry standards around container formats and runtime
* Lets rkt and docker work interchangeably.

Where can I host apps in containers?
* Linux server
* VM on Azure, AWS, etc.
* Container service.
* Many other hosts
* Using scheduler/orchestrato like ECS, Kubernetes, Swarm, Mesos

Building & Deploying Overview
* Dev container, big (SDK, source code, system files, build artifacts)
* Prod container, small (build artifacts)

Fun facts
* Average host runs 7 containers.
* 40% of Docker adopters are using an orchestrator (Kubernetes, ECS, Swarm, etc.)

Benefits of using Docker for development
* Getting an environment running very fast
* Being able to share your environment with others
* Being able to extend your environment very fast and easily
* Consistent environments
* Not polluting your computer with stuff since they are installed in the containers.

NOW DO THE DEMO!