# Golang Reston Meetup

## Test-Driven API authentication.
Speaker: Ryan Day

Guy talks way too fast.

Live Data
* Cons: need key, confusing for assigning blame.
* Pros: Will break as soon as it changes.

Minimal Responses
* Cons: API spec may change, not very indepth
* Pros: Everyone else will have broken as well.

Instead of using hardcoded URLs, we can have
a switch that makes us ping a test server instead.
Or take a base url as an argument.

## Go Fuzz
Speaker: Marty Schoch

Fuzz testing is generating random outputs automatically
and verifying that it doesn't break anything.

go-fuzz is a lbirary for doing this in go.

Speaker isn't author just user.

Steps
1) Download.
2) Make input validation function.
3) Come up with some starting data.
4) go-fuzz-build to compile
5) go-fuzz to run it.

Output shows the output that makes it crashes in a quotable
string. It has been used to find bugs in the standard library
and itself.

## database/sql and friends
Speaker: Patrick Edgett of FireEye

database/sql is a library of database interfaces. You can then
register implementations with it.

sql.Open returns a pool not an actual connection. You
still need to test it with sql.Ping().

Three functions to do things:
* Exec() - Execute statement without fetching any data.
* Query() - Run select, iterate over response rows.
* QueryRow() - Query without iteration boilerplate.

These can be done with:
* A sql.DB handle.
* A prepared statement.
* A transaction object.

Rows need to be explicitly closed with `defer`.
`defer` executes all of the deferred functions when the current
function ends.

database/sql is good enough for professional work, but
if you want to go further there are some ormish things out
there: beego, gorm, gorp.

There are no go equivalents to rails activerecord or django.db.

sqlx is a library with extensions to database/sql.

To deal with nullable ints, bool, etc. in databases, database/sql
lets you use Nullable structs which has a bool saying if something is
null. The alternative is to use pointers.

For testing, it's good to use transactions and then undo them with
tx.Rollback().

## Database Deployment with Go
Speaker: Ant Zucaro from College Board

He also enjoys hiking.

What is a database deployment? They are also known
as migrations. You want to take a data store, do stuff
to it, and come up with a new data store.

What kind of things do we want to do to a data store? 
Changing database schemas, manipulating the data, loading
it from somewhere else, and running procedures.

It's important to automate this. Not just because it's boring,
but because we want it to be as repeatable as possible.

What goals do we have?
* Simple package, easy to be maintained.
* Repeatable, as stated previously.
* Easy hooks into DB toolchain, these might already exist.
* Be traceable, so auditors are happy.

In the beginning, there was a perl script to do this. This meant they
had to have a perl interpreter everywhere. This is also required them
to manually interact with the console. Like legacy code goes it stuck
around for a decade, before they decided to change the system architecture.

The new architecture meant they had to apply the same changes across
multiple instances. This needed to be done concurrently which the
perl script didn't do. So, he wrote a new tool in Go. The big challenge
was making sure it was backwards compatible.

The provided code was edited for confidentiality. He used sync.WaitGroup
to manage concurrency. MD5 was used to verify that things were changed
correctly. flag was used for command line argument parsing.

In the beginning, he just wrote it for his personal use and shared
it to other people who wanted it. Since you can distribute go programs
as binary, you no longer need perl. The new program was added to source
control, unlike the previous.

How do you check you don't apply the same change set twice? Each instance
has a single deployment user and everything has a change tracking table,
which says what has been done to it. There were also DBAs who made sure
that their changes are idempotent.

## Random Thoughts

* The guy sitting next to me is named Edward Carmack
and is on GitHub. I should look him up.

* How does JSON work in Go, specifically how does Go
handle JSON typing?

* The speakers are decently technical, but aren't good
public speakers.
